Energy storage systems play an important role in a diverse range of industrial applications [1], [2], as either bulk energy storage or distributed transient energy buffer. Specific energy, specific power, lifetime, reliability, and safety are among the main criteria considered when picking energy storage [3]. Rechargeable batteries, especially lithium-ion batteries, are currently a popular option due to their high energy density and acceptable cycle life [4]. Nevertheless, they have limits of relatively low power density and relatively high internal resistance that could heavily curtail their power-delivery capability under large current loading. Moreover, battery life is highly susceptible to high current-rate and transient loading conditions [5]. In order to overcome these shortcomings, redundant design is often adopted in practice for pulse and peak power fulfillment, which inevitably incurs additional expense. On the other hand, supercapacitors (SCs), also known as ultracapacitors (UCs) or Electric Double-Layer Capacitors (EDLCs), are being actively studied and unanimously envisaged as a promising energy storage technology, owing to their desirable merits including high power density and high degree of recyclability [6], [7]. They have additional advantages, such as low internal resistance, wide operating temperature window, and high efficiency, despite that they have relatively low energy density [8]. These advantageous characteristics render them particularly suitable for working independently or in tandem with other high-energy devices for power sinking/sourcing in real plants [9]. In order to ensure efficient, safe, and reliable operation of SC systems, an enabling management system is necessary [10]. Its main tasks include cell equalization management, thermal management, power control synthesis, safety supervision, and so on, all of which hinge on systems and control engineering. For example, accurate and efficient modeling is fundamental for management system development regarding electrical, thermal, and aging issues [11]. Besides, precise state estimation provides insights for cell non-uniformity suppression and optimal power control of SC systems. There is a large body of literature reporting on advances in SC modeling, state estimation, and their industrial applications. This paper provides a comprehensive survey of SC studies in the recent literature, with the primary objective to systematically summarize the state of the art in SC modeling, state estimation, and industrial applications from a control/management perspective. Three prominent contributions distinguish our endeavor from existing review articles [12], [13], [14], [15]. First, we review virtually all the modeling approaches applied to SCs, including electrochemical, equivalent circuit, intelligent, and fractional-order models, especially underscoring the most recent modeling outcomes. Second, we cover the latest literature on State-of-Charge (SOC) estimation and State-of-Health (SOH) monitoring, and highlight the influencing factors that impact SC health. Third, we elucidate a broad variety of SC applications, especially focusing on the energy management development of SC-involved systems. This paper is anticipated to manifest research progress in the subject of SC management, catalyze novel transformative modeling/control ideas, and unlock more application opportunities. The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 gives a short overview of SC fundamentals. Section 3 reviews SC modeling approaches. The SOC estimation and SOH monitoring techniques are summarized in Section 4, followed by introducing SC industrial applications in Section 5. Section 6 summarizes the key points of this paper.